Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I want to show you one more way you can implement the factory method.
It's very very similar to the previous method.
The most common implementation of just using one concrete class except that in this case you don't need
the concrete class could just have a static method.
And so you don't know enough to create an instance of your factory.
You can just use a static method and call the factory method directly.
So again it's a kind of a simplified version.
It just includes the use of a static method.
You define a factory as a static method.
Another common technique it's often called a static factory.
This technique is sometimes use so that you do not need to instantiate a factory class to make use of
the Create method.
It has the disadvantage that you cannot subclass and change the behavior of the treatment create method.
So if you did want to change the factory method itself you won't be able to do it.
She would do this simplified ways where you don't have any change in any of the factory methods.
Let's walk through this and ontology again very very similar to the previous example just gonna change
one tiny thing
so I'm going to call this example I'm going to call the static method creator so called Factory static
method creator example
factory static method creator
factory static method creator.
Example
again We'll quickly go through creating the product interface and the concrete products shapes circle
and rectangle.
All this should look very very familiar.
Got the stuff memorized.
Shape interface interface represents the products just have that draw method.
So we just have our simple rectangles.
Again I'll quickly copy and paste this in.
The only thing that's really going to change in this example is the fact that our concrete creator is
going to have a static method.
Product stuff doesn't actually change at all it just implements the draw method.
Still same types of products.
Just want to make sure compile so we're gonna make default implementations or default access modifiers
still need to create or shape factory which is our concrete creator.
It's just going to have a single method in it.
Static method.
So our shape factory we'll have to get shape and get shape looks just like it did in the previous example
except it's static.
So again not much different here.
All right.
If it circle or turns in your circle if it's a rectangle returns any rectangle into new square turn
the New Square we're familiar with this.
We now need to create our client which instead of having to create an instance of the concrete creator
it can just use a static method.
Again very very similar to the previous one.
It just makes it a little bit cleaner because we don't have to create that instance.
So now we can call the get shape directly to statically what we will do here is we will do something
like this inside of our main is if we want to get a circle object we don't have to create an instance
shape factory.
We just use the static method get shape.
We still pass on the parameter that represents the type that we want to instantiate using a string and
then we call our draw method.
So pretty straightforward just that static method that's the only thing that changes in this implementation
so we will do the same for rectangles and squares and then you'll notice when we compile and run it
it has the same output as the previous examples.
So this will build and then run
and we have to make sure we run the client
and then again you'll see that the output is similar to previous examples the correct instance is called
for the type that needs to be created to summarise.
The only difference here is that that static method public static shape give shape client does not have
to create an instance a shape factory just calls good shape directly.
Pretty straightforward.
Thank you.